Welcome back.
Let's talk about some new data structures.
Over here we have stacks and Qs.
Qs with probably the most confusing spelling of all time.
Don't worry, even I who am fluent in English, have a really difficult time spelling this.
But it's Qs anyway.
Don't worry, the data structure itself is not as confusing as the spelling of this data structure.
We're going to learn, too, at the same time.
Stacks and Q's, because they're very similar.
They are both what we call linear data structures.
And linear data structures allow us to traverse.
That is, go through data elements sequentially one by one.
In which only one data element can be directly reached.
And this will become more clear to you as we talk more about Stacks and Qs throughout the next couple
of videos.
Now the reason that these are very similar is that they can be implemented in similar ways.
And the main difference is only how items get removed from this data structure.
You see, unlike an array in stacks and Qs, there's no random access operation.
You mainly use stacks and Qs to run commands like push, peak pop, all of which deal exclusively with
the element at the beginning or the end of the data structure.
Now, after I said that, what was your first thought?
Does it kind of sound limiting that with Stacks and Qs, we usually only can access the first or the
last element in the data structure.
Why would we ever want to use something like this?
And this is an important topic in computer science.
You will see that we can build things like Stacks and Qs, which are using arrays or linked lists.
Except unlike arrays and link lists, we have less methods or less actions that we can perform on stacks
and Qs.
And sometimes it's good to have these higher level data structures that are built on top of lower level
ones like link lists and arrays to limit the operations you can do on them.
That's actually a benefit in computer science.
Having this limited ability on a data structure is an advantage because you can control that.
Whoever uses this data structure performs only the right operations that are efficient.
If you give somebody all the tools in the world.
It's a lot harder for them to operate than if you just give them two or three so that they know exactly
what they need to do.
Now let's talk about Stacks and Qs throughout the next couple of videos to really understand how they
work.
And then finally code our own.
I'll see you in the next one.